These are notes derived from take the quiz. I got 100% of the quiz but I noticed that some of the information wasn't found in the textbook so I wanted to aggregate it here to be searched.

- Which of the following has a set of instruction codes which, when sent, activate some of their pins that are connected to a mechanical arm controller or a motor directly?
	- Microcontroller
	- This was in the textbook obviously. We're working with them.
	- Microcontrollers are usually processors with hardware control features. They have a set of instruction codes which, when sent, activate some of their pins that are connected to a mechanical arm controller or a motor directly.

- True or false: Embedded systems are contributing to a safer system of driving.
	- True
	- Currently, embedded systems in automobiles are rugged, as they are usually made up of just a single chip. Because of this ruggedness, there is a much reduced chance of failure, and almost no possibility that the system will get busy with another process and hang. This also makes the whole system small enough to fit inside a car’s nooks and crannies.

- Internet of things (IoT) is a concept that involves connecting the internet to physical devices such as home appliances and manufacturing machines.
	- True
	- The internet of things, or IoT, is a concept that involves connecting the internet to physical devices such as home appliances and manufacturing machines. With cloud computing and increasing access to fast speed internet everywhere around the world, the internet of things will soon be more than just a concept.

- When a programmer declares a variable to be volatile, which of the following occurs?
	- It signals both the compiler and the developer that the value of this variable can change anytime and this can happen by means that are outside the normal flow of the application.
	- When a programmer declares a variable to be volatile, it signals both the compiler and the developer that the value of this variable can change anytime and this can happen by means that are outside the normal flow of the application. The changes can be caused by a peripheral, another processor in a multiprocessor system, or an interrupt.
	- Refer to [[Journal Notes]]

- Which of the following enables the execution of concurrent tasks?
	- Real time operating system (RTOS)
	- The real time operating system (RTOS) enables the execution of concurrent tasks. It also provides a modus operandi by which it allows the processor to run each process as per scheduling and to switch between various processes depending on current priority levels. The RTOS, in effect, sets the framework of rules during the execution of application processes so as to enable finishing of a process in good time and with the appropriate priority.

- Which of the following is a program that takes the objects generated by the compiler and assembles them into a single executable program or a library?
	- Linker
	- A linker or link editor is a program that takes the objects generated by the compiler and assembles them into a single executable program or a library.

- Which of the following are true about the differences between Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC) and Complex Instruction Set Computing (CISC) architectures?
	- A CISC processor is easier to control and command because it carries out some of the more complicated functions automatically.
	- ARM processors are built using the RISC instruction set architecture.
	- An x86 (or x64) processor belongs to the CISC processor family.
	- CISC processors have a more complicated instruction set than RISC.
	- RISC-based systems cannot afford to use as much power as CISC systems.
	- CISC processors have a more complicated instruction set than RISC. A CISC processor is easier to control and command because it carries out some of the more complicated functions automatically. RISC-based systems cannot afford to use as much power as CISC systems. ARM processors are built using the RISC instruction set architecture.

- Which type of schedulers have scheduling points that occur only at timer interrupts?
	- Clock-driven
	- Clock driven schedulers are those for which the scheduling points occur only at timer interrupts. They’re also known as off-line schedulers.

- Flash is what an embedded system embeds main application software into
- Registers are used in a CPU to store information
- RAM is an example of semiconductor memory in a computer (Refer to [[Journal Notes]])

- Which is the type of timer in which, after it is set, a handler routine is called and the timer gets re-inserted into the timer queue each time it expires?
	- Periodic
	- Periodic timers are used to keep track of repetitive tasks like polling or performing some activity periodically. After a periodic timer is set, each time it expires, a handler routine is called and the timer gets re-inserted into the timer queue.
	- Refer to [[Section 2.7 Pulse width modulation]]